Seeking   an   internship   position   with   ASG   Renaissance  aiming   to   increase   my   software   
skills   while   being   a valuable   asset   to   the   company.


Skills:
● Python,   Java,   Perl,   JSON,   JavaScript
● Research   Methodology   and   Troubleshooting
● Computational   and   Corpus   Linguistics
● Object   Oriented   Architectures   and   Design   (OOA,   OOD,   OOA/D)
● Artificial   Intelligence   Neural   Networks
● Predictive   Models   and   Deep   Learning,   Machine   Learning/Understanding
● Data   Mining   and   Modeling/Natural   Language   Processing/Sentiment   Analysis
● Data   Analytics   and   Metrics,   Agile   Software   Development
● AWS   (EC2   GPU)   Infrastructure   Design,   LINUX/UNIX   Development
● Project   and   Data   Management,   Eclipse   and   Debugging
● Configuration   Management   Systems/Principles   (Git)
● Software   Development   Lifecycle,   Standard   Office   Software
  
  
RESEARCH   PROJECTS:

NLP   Undergraduate   Thesis;   Affective   Demonstrative   Sentiment   Analysis
Summary:   An   undergraduate   thesis   currently   in   progress   that   is   a   continuation   
of   my   Political   Twitter Accounts   analysis.   The   goal   of   this   two   year   thesis   
is   to   create   a   program   that   automatically   detects   affective demonstratives   in   
Twitter   corpuses,   and   later,   other   forms   of   sentiment.

While   working   on   my   Political   Twitter   Accounts   paper   I   searched   for   a   program
that   would   sort   through   the Tweets   for   me   to   identify   which   ones   had   affect   
and   which   did   not,   but   I   only   found   programs   that   work outside   of   Twitter.   
This   kind   of   sentiment   program   already   exists   for   things   like   academic   papers   
and   news articles   but   Twitter   semantics   are   so   different   that   their   margin   of   
error   is   too   high. I   decided   to   create   this   program   specifically   for   Twitter   
using   Java   and   Python.   Initially   I   made   a   small   model of   750   annotated   Tweets   
with   the   Java   based   Tweebo   parser   and   marked   the   affect   by   hand.   This   data   
will later   be   used   to   train   a   larger   corpus   that   will   in   turn   detect   Tweets   
imputed   from   the   Twitter   pipeline.   After this   is   accomplished,   I’d   like   to   move   
on   to   other   kinds   of   affect   and   maximum   entropy   models   for   Twitter. The   program   
can   be   used   to   determine   who   uses   more   emotionally   charged   language   and   why.   
My   goal   is   that someday   I’ll   be   able   to   use   this   to   create   a   program   that   
sorts   through   fake   news   on   Twitter.


Affective   Demonstratives   in   Political   Twitter   Accounts

Summary:   Research   study   exploring   the   frequencies   of   affective   demonstratives   in   
political   Twitter   accounts compared   to   the   general   population.   I   am   in   the   
process   of   submitting   this   paper   for   publication,   and   using   it to   apply   for   
an   undergraduate   honors   fellowship   this   spring.

The   hypothesis   of   this   paper   was,   “Do   politicians   use   more   emotionally   charged   
language   than   the   general population?”   I   used   Python   to   pull   100,000   archived   Tweets   
from   13   political   Twitter   accounts   and   I   sorted and   verified   the   Tweets   by   transferring
them   to   JSON   files   while   anonymizing   the   ID’s.   I   did   the   same   thing   for the   
general   population   to   establish   a   randomized   control   sample.   I   then   used   Excel   to   
create   visual representations   and   graphs   that   would   fit   in   a   large   research   paper   
to   be   easily   understood   by   non-linguists. An   enormous   amount   of   data   attained   by   
API   query   response   in   JSON   format   was   required   for   this   project.

Results:   I   discovered   that   politicians   do   use   more   emotionally   charged   language   than
the   general   population, which   can   be   used   to   elicit   a   stronger   response.
